classified-and-unclassified.md, before:

# Clarification on "classified" and "unclassified" totals

Several tables on the donations portal have rows labeled "classified total" and
"unclassified total". This document explains what they mean and when they add
up to what.

## Meaning

These rows show up in tables that have groupings (e.g. cause area, influencer,
country, disclosures). If a donation can be associated with a group member, it
is "classified"; otherwise it is "unclassified".

As such, these terms have nothing to do with the
[confidential nature](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classified_information)
of the donations (all donation information is gathered from public sources).

## Summing up columns

- In general, classified total + unclassified total ≥ total.
- For number of donees, classified total + unclassified total ≥ total. Equality
  is not guaranteed because a donee might have received a donation that was
  classified and also a donation that was unclassified.
- For number of donations, classified total + unclassified total = total.
  Equality is guaranteed because each donation is classified xor unclassified.
- For donation amount, classified total + unclassified total = total.
  Equality is guaranteed because each donation is classified xor unclassified.

For groupings, an additional question is whether summing up a column using
values from each group member row (i.e. a row that *isn't* one of "classified
total", "unclassified total", or "total") will equal the "classified total"
row.
Here the relevant question is whether each donation can be associated
with just one group member (cause area, influencer, country list – these are
just strings rather than actual lists) or with multiple group members
(`donor_side_name` of disclosures). In the former case, adding up an amounts,
number of donations, or number of donees column will equal the "classified
total" value. In the latter, adding up the column will be greater than or
equal to the "classified total" value.

Commit message:

Add yearly sums and image

classified-and-unclassified.md, after:

# Clarification on "classified" and "unclassified" totals and summation types

Several tables on the donations portal have rows labeled "classified total" and
"unclassified total". This document explains what they mean and when they add
up to what.

## Meaning of "classified" and "unclassified"

These rows show up in tables that have groupings (e.g. cause area, influencer,
country, disclosures). If a donation can be associated with a group member, it
is "classified"; otherwise it is "unclassified".

As such, these terms have nothing to do with the
[confidential nature](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classified_information)
of the donations (all donation information is gathered from public sources).

## Summation types

[![Image showing different summation types](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vipulnaik/donations/images/images/classified.png)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vipulnaik/donations/images/images/classified.png)

### Classified + unclassified vs total (green)

- In general, classified total + unclassified total ≥ total.
- For number of donees, classified total + unclassified total ≥ total. Equality
  is not guaranteed because a donee might have received a donation that was
  classified and also a donation that was unclassified.
- For number of donations, classified total + unclassified total = total.
  Equality is guaranteed because each donation is classified xor unclassified.
- For donation amount, classified total + unclassified total = total.
  Equality is guaranteed because each donation is classified xor unclassified.

### Classified total vs sum of group members (blue)

For groupings, an additional question is whether summing up a column using
values from each group member row (i.e. a row that *isn't* one of "classified
total", "unclassified total", or "total") will equal the "classified total"
row.
Here the relevant question is whether each donation can be associated
with just one group member (cause area, influencer, country list – these are
just strings rather than actual lists) or with multiple group members
(`donor_side_name` of disclosures). In the former case, adding up an amounts,
number of donations, or number of donees column will equal the "classified
total" value. In the latter, adding up the column will be greater than or
equal to the "classified total" value.

### Yearly sum (red)

For yearly sums, the question is whether the quantity being summed can belong
to multiple years. Currently the table shows only yearly sums for donation
amount, and a donation can only belong to a single year, so yearly sum = total.

On the other hand, if the quantity being summed is number of donees, then a
single donee can receive donations in multiple years, so yearly sum ≥ total.
